---
title: 'Slash Pages'
link: 'https://slashpages.net'
created_at: 2024-12-19T10:29:08+00:00
updated_at: 2024-12-19T10:29:08+00:00
---

One of the reasons behind me resurrecting this website is that I wanted to start documenting more about myself. This is more than just writing blog posts (a habit that I am starting to build). This is my personal space on the web and I want to use it as an opportunity to be introspective and represent myself more fully. But there can be so many facets to a person, where do you even start? What exactly do you include on an ‘About’ page?

A couple of weeks ago I came across Slash Pages by [Robb Knight](https://rknight.me) and I knew right away that it was the starting point I was looking for.

> Slash pages are common pages you can add to your website, usually with a standard, root-level slug like `/now`, `/about`, or `/uses`. They tend to describe the individual behind the site and are distinguishing characteristics of the IndieWeb.

I already have a very brief [/about](/about) page, and have a reasonably outdated [/now](/page), but now I ideas for what else to write about. I intend to treat this area of the site more like a digital garden that I can tend to and grow over time. I have added a [/slashes](/slashes) index page to pull it all together and have grabbed some of my notes from Obsidian to set up a few new pages.

This process is entirely for me - the fact that this site is on the public web doesn’t automatically mean that anyone is going to read it. I don’t have analytics of any kind and I really don’t care if anyone reads this stuff, but I’m looking forward using this as an exercise to consider how I think about various things.