---
title: 'AirPods Pro 2'
published_at: 2024-10-28T14:00:00+00:00
created_at: 2024-10-28T14:00:00+00:00
updated_at: 2024-10-28T14:00:00+00:00
---

Earlier this year I was looking to upgrade from my 3rd generation AirPods to something with noise cancellation. At the time I was having a sort of existential crisis around being so embedded in the Apple ecosystem so I was railing against getting a set of AirPods Pro (they were also the most expensive option at the time), so I opted for a set of [Bose QuietComfort Ultra Earbuds](https://www.bose.com/p/earbuds/bose-quietcomfort-ultra-earbuds/QCUE-HEADPHONEIN.html?dwvar_QCUE-HEADPHONEIN_color=BLACK).

They were good ...ish. I experienced _some_ connectivity issues - oftentimes related to the Bose app on iPhone. But the sound (and active noise cancellation) were decent, and I stuck with them.

Fast-forward to September. I was wearing the Bose less-and-less - despite the mostly superior sound quality, connectivity gripes forced me back to using my older AirPods when going out walking. I just couldn’t deny the fact that Apple products _just work_ within the ecosystem, and switching between my phone, iPad and _two_ MacBook Pros (one being my work machine) was seamless.

The iPhone 16 launch event didn’t introduce a new version of AirPods Pro - the fact that Apple did not iterate on the hardware told me they had peaked, and the model was dialled in (based on current technology). The new soft / firmware features for hearing health are very compelling - as someone that had hearing issues when I was a young child, and am now moving into my late(r) forties, my hearing health is something that I am starting to pay attention to.

Whilst I didn’t _need_ a new set of earbuds (the Bose ones are still pretty immaculate), I was sold on the AirPods Pro 2. So when Costco had them on special for $110 (AUD) less than Apple I took it as a sign and picked up a pair.

I’ve got to say, unboxing and setting them up was fairly anti-climactic - but in a good way. The fact that they _just work_, straight out of the box with no messing around, is Apple through and through. Plus, they sound great.

I’ll still be keeping the Bose earbuds as a backup, but expect them to gather dust.
