---
title: "iPad Pro and external monitors"
---

I recently upgraded from a 4th generation iPad Mini to an 11” iPad Pro M4 with the express intention of replacing my personal MacBook Pro (original 13” M1 with Touchpad)
as much as possible for everything non-work (including writing this blog).

One of the selling points of going pro was external monitor support, so one of the first things I did when I unboxed was hook it up to my 34” Samsung curved monitor.

This was my first time using iPadOS with an external monitor so it took a little getting used to (plus my monitor doesn’t really do the iPad justice as it isn’t 4K).

Shortly after plugging it in, it started to repeatedly disconnect. At first I assumed it was the monitor - it’s not the best and I’ve had the occasional connection issue with it over the years - but when I tried it with another monitor I experienced the same issue. I then tried a number of different USB-C cables, but no joy. It seemed that my pristine brand new iPad Pro was unusable with an external monitor 😩.

Defeated, I was about box-up the presumably faulty tablet when it occurred to me that every time the iPad disconnected and reconnected to the monitor it was accompanied by the ‘charging’ chime that all (portable) Apple devices make. I wondered whether it was related.

Up until now I had been using a USB-C connection from the monitor, which was charging the iPad as well as providing the video connection. I dug out a spare HDMI cable and a USB-C dongle I’d bought with my MacBook Pro and hooked it all up. So far so good - iPad is running on an external monitor (and running its battery down).

So here’s what is happening - and it kind of _is_ the monitor that is at fault. When the iPad is running off a USB-C cable it is both charging and sending video to the monitor. Once the battery is fully charged, it (naturally) stops charging - unfortunately the monitor isn’t smart enough to stop sending charge back up the wire, so gets disconnected. This might be a USB-C thing, and if the iPad were connected to a Thunderbolt
port (like on the Apple Studio Display) it wouldn’t have the same issue.

Unfortunately I’m not in the market for a new display at the moment, so for now my solution is to run the monitor off of HDMI, connected to an old hub (which also has a USB-C _power_ cable attached to it). It’s not as elegant as a single cable for everything (like I have for my work laptop), but it works.
