---
title: 'Apple Intelligence'
published_at: 2024-12-13T05:44:00+00:00
created_at: 2024-12-13T05:44:00+00:00
updated_at: 2024-12-13T05:44:00+00:00
---

Yesterday with iOS 18.2 Apple Intelligence was officially released in Australia. I acknowledge that it is Apple's current cornerstone feature, however I'm just not that excited by it.

I'm not much of a Siri user as it is, other than setting the occasional timer or adding items to my shopping list, and I can't really see Apple Intelligence changing that.

Notification summaries could be useful, and I _might_ give the writing tools a go for proof-reading now that I am endeavouring to write more.

I'm not interested in Image Playground or Genmoji at all.

This is not to say that Apple Intelligence isn't useful. I can certainly appreciate how other people could use it and get real value from it, and from that standpoint I will continue to follow the progress of the suite of tools. Apple's approach to AI is distinctly 'Apple' with a focus on privacy and being 'useful' in a more focussed way.

There is a lot of potential for ‘personal intelligence’ - especially in the health space. I _am_ excited about the hidden parts of Apple Intelligence and its machine learning foundations that are already a part of the Apple ecosystem. We're already seeing it with Apple Watch features like Vitals, that learn over time and start to highlight outliers that are specific to you. Indeed, I experienced this firsthand a month ago when I developed pneumonia from a bacterial infection - Vitals picked up that something wasn't right while I was still feeling okay(ish).

We're not far off from Apple Watch with on-device (or at least the connected device) intelligence being able to provide tailored monitoring, with accurate health and fitness advice akin to the [WHOOP](https://www.whoop.com) band. Perhaps the more advanced features (and computation) would be rolled into a Fitness+ subscription, perhaps not. Regardless of the details, _that_ is the potential use of Apple Intelligence that I _am_ excited about.
